display

DISPLAY

the display of albums in library view follows this hierarchy:

pool -> filtered by shelfs -> grouped in sidebar by specific tag -> sorted by sorting rules in album-grid-view

-

SIDEBAR

sidebar contains sections as:

album library - the header button for displaying all albums in album grid filtered by shelf

group section - list of buttons based on all found tags inside picked group, displayed in alphabetical order (e.g list of all GENRE tags), when clicked filters album grid further by tag

-

SORTING

sorting rules are based on any metadata already existing in db

default sorting rules:

artist/chronological    ALBUMARTIST/DATE/ALBUM
album title             ALBUM
release date            DATE
date added to library   DATEADDED
custom                  any tag from tag-file (configure in config.ini)

and random mode based on SHA256 (or any fast hash algo) hash of seed value given by the user from ui context, with feature of keeping the relative position of albums in view to each other the same

it means when new album is added to library it looks like it inserts itself between albums already present. the point of this logic is to keep overall user visual perceprion of album grid the same for any specific given seed and unique for every given seed overall

logic probably will be binary sorting based on:
rand_sort_hash = album_hash + seed_hash

-

TABS

main ui is divided into two tabs - LIBRARY VIEW and PLAYING.

-

PANELS

the whole layout is divided into set of panels it builds itself from. each panel has its own specification. here's the list of all panels:

album-grid-view - the main panel in LIBRARY VIEW tab. contains and displays grid of album cards filtered and sorted by given rules.

side-bar - contains buttons to switch between tabs, groups of albums filtered (e.g. list of genres) and view all button

queue - displays current queue in list of tracks grouping them by album they belong to with header for each album like this

  #### ALBUMARTIST (# represent mini cover)
  #### ALBUM
    title1
    title2
    ...etc

cover-preview - reactive rectanglular panel displaying cover of track playing or album/track clicked anywhere in ui

-

PANEL: album-grid-view

the library view panel defines as the grid of square cards of albums contained in current view filter. the squares are sharly cornered, non-rounded, without borders, with faint configurable shadow to create floating effect. the grid builds from constraints of the panel in is contained in + card size defined in config + minimal space allowed between columns of cards. when clicked on card the menu expands below listing all track in an album. the list inserts itself right underneath the row containing the card clicked without movement of cards to the right of it. the movement when mouse scroll wheel is used always aligns to the top row of cards and jumps one row per one scroll. the square is for an album cover, underneath we have two lines ALBUM and ALBUMARTIST (like in itunes).






created:   2025-12-16 at 14:51 UTC+0300
modified:  2026-01-07 at 12:35 UTC+0300
